Title: A TextMate tip for Emacs users
Date: July 3, 2007
Timestamp: 1183481100
Author: sjs
Tags: emacs, keyboard shortcuts, textmate
----

<p><em>Update: The only place I’ve seen this mentioned is in a <a href="http://web.archive.org/web/20081006063558/http://macromates.com/blog/2005/screencast/#comment-660">comment</a> on the MacroMates blog.</em></p>


	<p>My Linux box is down due to a hardware failure; a cheap <span class="caps">SATA</span> controller to be specific. Perhaps that will be a story for another day. As a result I’ve been working on my MacBook and back in TextMate. Old habits. And I haven’t gotten comfortable in any of the <span class="caps">OS X</span> Emacsen yet.</p>


	<p>This gave me an opportunity to accidentally discover some shortcuts in TextMate. A result of the Emacs shortcuts that my fingers are already wired to, here are some TextMate keyboard shortcuts that may or may not be <a href="http://web.archive.org/web/20081006063558/http://macromates.com/textmate/manual/">documented</a> (I need to <span class="caps">RTFM</span> some day).</p>


	<ul>
	<li>As in most Cocoa text areas, <code>C-f</code>, <code>C-b</code>, <code>C-n</code>, <code>C-p</code>, <code>C-a</code>, <code>C-e</code>, and <code>C-t</code> work as expected (and others I’m sure).</li>
		<li><code>C-k</code>: behaves as a vanilla Emacs, killing till a newline or killing a bare newline. I use the word killing specifically because you can yank it back with…</li>
		<li><code>C-y</code>: yanks back the last thing on the kill ring (paste history). You still have to use <code>C-S-v</code> to yank previous items.</li>
	</ul>


	<p>I think TextMate may have helped ease me into Emacs without me even knowing. I had my suspicions that Allan was an Emacs fan and now I’m certain of it. I keep finding things in one that the other has, which makes switching between them easy. Well done Allan.</p>
